CodeBook.md
-------------------
Data for the analysis comes from several source files:

---- Source Files -------
subject_test.txt – a list of integers corresponding to subject identifiers; the variable in this file is assigned the name “subject_id” by the script.
y_test.txt – a list of integers corresponding to activities performed by the subjects; the variable in this file is assigned the name “activity_id” by the script.
X_test.txt – a list of 561 numeric values corresponding to measurements taken from the subjects doing the activities.  Variable names for this file are assigned by reading in the labels in the file “features.txt”
subject_train.txt – a list of integers corresponding to subject identifiers; the variable in this file is assigned the name “subject_id” by the script.
y_train.txt – a list of integers corresponding to activities performed by the subjects; the variable in this file is assigned the name “activity_id” by the script.
X_train.txt – a list of 561 numeric values corresponding to measurements taken from the subjects doing the activities.  Variable names for this file are assigned by reading in the labels in the file “features.txt”------- Transformations -------------
The data is transformed as the script progresses and new data frames are created:y_test_with_descriptions results from merging y_test with the activity_labels file, resulting in a data frame with two variables: activity_id and activity_description
y_train_with_descriptions results from merging y_train with the activity_labels file, resulting in a data frame with two variables: activity_id and activity_description.
first_phase_test_data results from merging subject_test and y_test_with_descriptions, resulting in a data frame with the variables: subject_id, activity_id and activity_description
combined_test_data results from merging first_phase_test_data with x_test, giving a data frame with the subject_id, activity_id, activity_description and all 561 of the measurement variables.
first_phase_train_data results from merging subject_train and y_train_with_descriptions, resulting in a data frame with the variables: subject_id, activity_id and activity_description
combined_train_data results from merging first_phase_train_data with x_train, giving a data frame with the subject_id, activity_id, activity_description and all 561 of the measurement variables.combined_master_data results from merging combined_test_data and combined_train_data.  It has all the same variables as the two original data sets but incudes more rows of data.
subset_of_master_data contains subject_id, activity_id, activity_description and just those measurement variables containing the words “mean” or “std” in their titles.
meltedData is the result of the transformation of subset_of_master_data.  It contains one row for each subject_id, activity_id, activity_description, measurement variable name and measurement variable value.
tidyData is the final dataframe, resulting from the transformation of meltedData. It contains subject_id, activity_id, activity_description and mean values for each of the measurement variables.  Specifically, the variables are:[1] "subject_id"                      "activity_id"                     [3] "activity_description"            "tBodyAcc-mean()-X"               [5] "tBodyAcc-mean()-Y"               "tBodyAcc-mean()-Z"               [7] "tGravityAcc-mean()-X"            "tGravityAcc-mean()-Y"            [9] "tGravityAcc-mean()-Z"            "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"          [11] "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"           "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"          [13] "tBodyGyro-mean()-X"              "tBodyGyro-mean()-Y"             [15] "tBodyGyro-mean()-Z"              "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X"         [17] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y"          "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z"         [19] "tBodyAccMag-mean()"              "tGravityAccMag-mean()"          [21] "tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"          "tBodyGyroMag-mean()"            [23] "tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"         "fBodyAcc-mean()-X"              [25] "fBodyAcc-mean()-Y"               "fBodyAcc-mean()-Z"              [27] "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-X"           "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Y"          [29] "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Z"           "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"          [31] "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"           "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"          [33] "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-X"       "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Y"      [35] "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Z"       "fBodyGyro-mean()-X"             [37] "fBodyGyro-mean()-Y"              "fBodyGyro-mean()-Z"             [39] "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-X"          "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Y"         [41] "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Z"          "fBodyAccMag-mean()"             [43] "fBodyAccMag-meanFreq()"          "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"     [45] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-meanFreq()"  "fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()"        [47] "fBodyBodyGyroMag-meanFreq()"     "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"    [49] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-meanFreq()" "tBodyAcc-std()-X"               [51] "tBodyAcc-std()-Y"                "tBodyAcc-std()-Z"               [53] "tGravityAcc-std()-X"             "tGravityAcc-std()-Y"            [55] "tGravityAcc-std()-Z"             "tBodyAccJerk-std()-X"           [57] "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"            "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"           [59] "tBodyGyro-std()-X"               "tBodyGyro-std()-Y"              [61] "tBodyGyro-std()-Z"               "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X"          [63] "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y"           "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z"          [65] "tBodyAccMag-std()"               "tGravityAccMag-std()"           [67] "tBodyAccJerkMag-std()"           "tBodyGyroMag-std()"             [69] "tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"          "fBodyAcc-std()-X"               [71] "fBodyAcc-std()-Y"                "fBodyAcc-std()-Z"               [73] "fBodyAccJerk-std()-X"            "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"           [75] "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"            "fBodyGyro-std()-X"              [77] "fBodyGyro-std()-Y"               "fBodyGyro-std()-Z"              [79] "fBodyAccMag-std()"               "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()"      [81] "fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()"          "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"Units of MeasureAs noted, subject_id and activity_id are both integer identifiers.  The activity_description is a character field consisting of one of six values:WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING and LAYING.  The measure variables, listed above, do not have units of measure because the data has been normalized and bounded within a range of -1 to 1.